ADR for deploying pipelines along with operator (#29)
thoth-station/opendatahub-cnbi: docs/decisions/0002-deploy-pipelines.md

---
status: accepted
date: 2022-11-04
---
# Deploy pipeline along with the operator

## Context and Problem Statement

CNBi feature include OpenShift Pipelines, that are used for task actions.
The pipelines are not entirely dependent on the CNBi Operator.
However the Operator trigger the pipelines execution, so there is a dependency from Operator end.

## Decision Drivers

* Consistency in deployment
* Minimize the resource location

## Considered Options

* Deploy the OpenShift pipelines using Helm charts, and maintain them on different repository.
* Have the Operator deploy the pipeline using the tarball of the pipeline repository.
* Include the pipelines with the Operator manifests.

## Decision Outcome

> Chosen option: "Include the pipelines with the Operator manifests", because it would provide consistency on deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chosen option: "Include the pipelines with the Operator manifests", because it provides consistency on deployment.
```

---
status: accepted
date: 2022-11-04
---
# Deploy pipeline along with the operator

## Context and Problem Statement

> CNBi feature includes OpenShift Pipelines, that are used for task actions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Custom Notebook Image (CNBi) feature of Open Data Hub (ODH) includes OpenShift Pipelines manifests that are used to implement the CNBi functionality.
```

> The pipelines are not entirely dependent on the CNBi Operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pipelines are not entirely dependent on the [CNBi Operator](https://github.com/thoth-station/meteor-operator).
```

> CNBi feature include OpenShift Pipelines, that are used for task actions.<br>
> The pipelines are not entirely dependent on the CNBi Operator. <br>
> However the Operator trigger the pipelines execution, so there is a dependency 
> from Operator end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CNBi feature include OpenShift Pipelines, that are used for task actions.
The pipelines are not entirely dependent on the CNBi Operator.
However the Operator trigger the pipelines execution, so there is a dependency from Operator end.
```
I think the mardown expect one phrase per line without line length limiting

Author: thanks :+1:

> However the CNBi Operator triggers the pipelines execution, so there is a dependency from CNBi Operator end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However the CNBi Operator triggers the pipelines execution, so there is a dependency from CNBi Operator's end.
```

## Decision Drivers

* Consistency in deployment

> * Minimize the resource location

Reviewer 2: It is a bit unclear (to me at least) what "minimize resource location" means...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid spreading resources in several locations
```
Maybe ?

Author: yes, it means we don't want to maintain them separate in different places.

* Minimize the resource location

## Considered Options

> * Deploy the OpenShift pipelines using helm charts, and maintained on different repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deploy the OpenShift pipelines using Helm charts, and maintain them on different repository.
```

Author: thanks :+1:

> * Deploy the OpenShift pipelines using Helm charts, and maintain them on different repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Deploy the OpenShift pipeline definition manifests using Helm charts, and maintain them on a different repository.
```

> * Have the Operator deploy the pipeline using the tarball of the pipeline repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Have the Operator deploy the pipeline manifests using the tarball of a separate pipeline repository.
```

* Have the Operator deploy the pipeline using the tarball of the pipeline repository.

> * Include the pipelines with Operator manifests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Include the pipelines with the Operator manifests.
```

Author: thanks :+1:

> * Include the pipelines with the CNBi Operator, allow users to deploy it using kfdef.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Include the pipeline manifests within the CNBi Operator repository, allow users to deploy it using kfdef.
```

## Decision Outcome

> Chosen option: "Include the pipelines with Operator manifets", because it would provide consistency on deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chosen option: "Include the pipelines with the Operator manifests", because it would provide consistency on deployment.
```

### Positive Consequences 

> * Inclusion of pipelines with operator would allow one packaging and referencing would be easier. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Including the pipelines with the Operator simplify packaging and referencing. 
```

Author: thanks :+1:

### Negative Consequences

> * As pipelines doesnt need to have dependency, this would create one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This makes the pipelines dependent on the operator.
```
(Does it really though ? Can't we still just apply them as manifests ?

Author: yes we can apply them directly, it is just that they would be in the operator repo.
so release of them is basically the release of operator.

## Pros and Cons of the Options

### Deploy the OpenShift pipelines using helm charts

* Good, because it allows developers to work without having additional dependency.
* Bad, because the helm chart is yet to be accepted via OpenDatahub deployments.

> * Bad, because it requires versioning of helm chart and keeping track of what getting deployed with respect to operator version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bad, because it requires versioning of helm chart and keeping track of what getting deployed with respect to  the Operator version. 
```

Author: thanks :+1:

### Have the Operator deploy the pipeline using the tarball of the pipeline repository

> * Good, because it provide easy packaging along with operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Good, because it provide easy packaging along with operator.
```

Author: thanks :+1:

> * Bad, because it would require develops to continously release repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bad, because it would require Devops to continuously release the pipelines repository.
```
(That's a guess for devops

Author: thanks :+1:
